# 0️⃣x️⃣0️⃣0️⃣. Webpack

This project covers the basics of Webpack and how to set it up with different configurations.

## Description

Webpack is a popular module bundler primarily used for bundling JavaScript files for usage in a browser. It can also transform, bundle, or package other resources and assets in your application.

## Requirements

- All of your code will be executed on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS using Node 12.x.x
- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`, `Visual Studio Code`
- All of your files should end with a new line

## Tasks

| Task | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [0️⃣. Basic setup](#0-basic-setup) | Create a basic Webpack setup without a config file |
| [1️⃣. Learning how to use Webpack with a config file](#1-learning-how-to-use-webpack-with-a-config-file) | Set up Webpack with a config file and add jQuery and Lodash |
| [2️⃣. Adding CSS & Images](#2-adding-css--images) | Modify the Webpack config to support CSS and images |
| [3️⃣. Dev servers, modules, and tree shaking](#3-dev-servers-modules-and-tree-shaking) | Set up a dev server, split code into modules, and optimize bundles |

### 0️⃣. Basic setup

- Create a folder named `task_0`.
- Install `webpack` and `webpack-cli` as developer dependencies within the folder using `npm`.
- Install `jQuery` as a regular dependency using `npm`.
- Create a `src` directory with an `index.js` file.
- The `index.js` file should import `jQuery` and add three different paragraphs to the page body.
- Create a `dist/index.html` file and import your `main.js` in the body.
- You must use jQuery to add the elements to the body of the page.
- When running Webpack, your JavaScript and HTML files should be generated in a `dist` folder.
- You should not use a custom Webpack config file.
- Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
- Your HTML code should only import one JavaScript script (the one generated by Webpack).

### 1️⃣. Learning how to use Webpack with a config file

- Create a folder named `task_1` and initialize a `package.json` using `npm init -y`.
- Install `webpack` (dev dependency), `jQuery` (dependency), and `Lodash` (dependency) within the folder using `npm`.
- Modify your `package.json` to add a `build` script that runs Webpack to create a production build.
- Create a `js` directory with a `dashboard_main.js` file that imports `jQuery` and performs various tasks.
- Write a function called `updateCounter()` that tracks the number of times a button element has been clicked.
- Bind the `debounce` function in `Lodash` to the click event on the button.
- When running Webpack, your JavaScript should be generated in a `public` folder, and your `index.html` should also be placed in this folder.
- The JavaScript file generated by Webpack should be named `bundle.js`.
- Set Webpack config mode to `production`.
- Opening your HTML file should not generate any error in the console.
- Your HTML code should only import one JavaScript script (the one generated by Webpack).

### 2️⃣. Adding CSS & Images

- Using the folder named `task_2`, reuse the code from `task_1`.
- Modify the Webpack config to support adding CSS to the bundle.
- Modify the Webpack config to support adding images to the CSS.
- Create a `css` folder and a `main.css` file to style the counter text and add a logo.
- Set the background of an element with the id `#logo` using an image from `task_2/assets/holberton-logo.jpg`.
- Configure Webpack to optimize images.
- When running Webpack, your JavaScript and HTML files should be generated in a `public` folder.
- The JavaScript file generated by Webpack should be named `bundle.js`.
- Set Webpack config mode to `production`.
- Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
- Your HTML code should only import one JavaScript script (the one generated by Webpack).
- When running Webpack, you should not see the warning `WARNING in asset size limit: The following asset(s) exceed the recommended size limit`.

### 3️⃣. Dev servers, modules, and tree shaking

- Using the folder named `task_3`, reuse the code from `task_2`.
- Modify the Webpack config to set up a development server running on port `8564`.
- Modify the Webpack config to set its mode to `development`.
- Add a script in `package.json` to start the server and open the browser with `npm run start-dev`.
- Divide the code into three modules: `header`, `body`, and `footer`.
- Modify the Webpack configuration to support three different entry points (header, body, footer), each generating a filename with the format `name_of_the_file.bundle.js`.
- Do not have a `task_3/public/` directory pushed to your repository.
- Add a plugin to Webpack to automatically create an `index.html` HTML file.
- Modify the Webpack config to support inline source mapping.
- Add a plugin to Webpack to clean your build folder on each build.
- Modify the Webpack configuration to split the modules into chunks.

## Author

This project was created by [NEAZYIT](https://github.com/NEAZYIT) under the guidance of [ALX Africa](https://www.alx.africa/) It is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) as part of the ALX React curriculum.